--oop vocab--
class—Tell Python to make a new kind of thing.
 • object—Two meanings: the most basic kind of thing, and any instance of some thing.
 • instance—What you get when you tell Python to create a class.
 • def—How you defi ne a function inside a class.
 • self—Inside the functions in a class, self is a variable for the instance/object being accessed.
 • inheritance—The concept that one class can inherit traits from another class, much like 
you and your parents.
 • composition—The concept that a class can be composed of other classes as parts, much 
like how a car has wheels.
 • attribute—A property classes have that are from composition and are usually variables.
 • is- a—A phrase to say that something inherits from another, as in a “salmon” is- a “fi sh.”
 • has- a—A phrase to say that something is composed of other things or has a trait, as in “a 
salmon has- a mouth.”


--python to english--
class X(Y) “Make a class named X that is- a Y.”
class X(object): def __init__(self, J) “class X has- a __init__ that takes self and J parameters.”
class X(object): def M(self, J) “class X has- a function named M that takes self and J parameters.”
foo = X() “Set foo to an instance of class X.”
foo.M(J) “From foo get the M function, and call it with parameters self, J.”
foo.K = Q “From foo get the K attribute, and set it to Q.”


--OOP--An important concept that you have to understand is the difference between a class and an 
object. The problem is, there is no real “difference” between a class and an object. They 
are actually the same thing at different points in time. I will demonstrate by a Zen koan:
What is the difference between a Fish and a Salmon?
Did that question sort of confuse you? Really sit down and think about it for a minute. I mean, a 
Fish and a Salmon are different but, wait, they are the same thing, right? A Salmon is a kind of Fish, so 
I mean it’s not different. But at the same time, because a Salmon is a particular type of Fish, 
it’s actually different from all other Fish. That’s what makes it a Salmon and not a Halibut. So a 
Salmon and a Fish are the same but different. Weird.
This question is confusing because most people do not think about real things this way, but they 
intuitively understand them. You do not need to think about the difference between a Fish and 
a Salmon because you know how they are related. You know a Salmon is a kind of Fish and that 
there are other kinds of Fish without having to understand that.
Let’s take it one step further: say you have a bucket full of three Salmon and, because you are 
a nice person, you have decided to name them Frank, Joe, and Mary. Now, think about this 
question:
What is the difference between Mary and a Salmon?
Again, this is a weird question, but it’s a bit easier than the Fish versus Salmon question. You know that 
Mary is a Salmon, and so she’s not really different. She’s just a specifi c “instance” of a Salmon. Joe and 
Frank are also instances of Salmon. What do I mean when I say “instance”? I mean they were created 
from some other Salmon and now represent a real thing that has Salmon- like attributes.
Now for the mind- bending idea: Fish is a class, and Salmon is a class, and Mary is an object. 
Think about that for a second. Alright let’s break it down real slow and see if you get it.
A Fish is a class, meaning it’s not a real thing, but rather a word we attach to instances of things 
with similar attributes. Got fi ns? Got gills? Lives in water? Alright it’s probably a Fish.
Someone with a PhD then comes along and says, “No, my young friend, this Fish is actually Salmo
salar, affectionately known as a Salmon.” This professor has just clarifi ed the Fish further and 
made a new class called “Salmon” that has more specifi c attributes. Longer nose, reddish fl esh, 
big, lives in the ocean or fresh water, tasty? OK, probably a Salmon
Finally, a cook comes along and tells the PhD, “No, you see this Salmon right here, I’ll call her Mary 
and I’m going to make a tasty fi llet out of her with a nice sauce.” Now you have this instance of a 
Salmon (which also is an instance of a Fish) named Mary turned into something real that is fi lling 
your belly. It has become an object.
There you have it: Mary is a kind of Salmon that is a kind of Fish. object is a class is a class